---
layout: post
title: PAGE 8.0 Press Release
date: 2024/01/02 13:00:00
img: 
description: PAGE 8.0 Press Release
categories: [Python, PAGE, Tkinter, GUI, Book, Full Circle Magazine]
sitemap: true
---

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 1, 2024
Gregory Walters
PAGE GUI Designer for Python
thedesignatedgeek@gmail.com

PAGE 8.0 RELEASED
ttk Theme support and much more

San Francisco, California: Don Rozenberg, creator of PAGE, today announced version 8.0 of PAGE, a GUI designer for Python. PAGE 8.0 is major enhancement of PAGE 7.6 and offers an enhanced way for Python programmers to design GUI front-ends for their applications.

“This is a re-imaging of the standard drag and drop interface that PAGE has been famous for over the last 15+ years,” says Greg Walters, co-developer. “In earlier versions of PAGE whenever a developer wanted to use any widgets from the ttk Themed widgets, the widgets used the ‘default’ OS theme to visualize their design. While this was helpful, if the developer wanted to use another theme for their GUI after the initial design session, chances were good that they would need to rework it. When this rework was done it was without having the Theme applied to their GUI. Now, the need for rework will be dramatically reduced. This is a major speedup for the developer and makes PAGE a much better RAD (Rapid Application Development tool).”

Features and benefits of PAGE 8.0 include.

    • Design with Tcl Theme support
    • Comes with 12 Tcl Themes out of the box plus support for the OS themes
    • Easily add other third party Themes to PAGE
    • PAGE 8.0 comes with many more enhancements as well

PAGE 8.0 will be available starting January 2, 2024, for free and Open Software. For more information on PAGE 8.0 or to download, visit https://sourceforge.net/projects/page/.

---



About PAGE: PAGE is a tool which helps in the creation of Python GUI interfaces using Tkinter and the Tk/ttk widget sets. It is a fork or extension of the program Visual Tcl (vTcl) which now produces Python code. PAGE runs on any system with Python installed and the generated Python code requires only Python to execute.
PAGE is released under GNU General Public License version 2.0 (GPLv2) and runs under Microsoft Windows, Linux, macOS, and Raspberry Pi.
